Add UEFI and TF-A as certificates for LmP (#534)
foundriesio/docs: source/reference-manual/security/factory-keys.rst

------------------

The secure boot flow starts from the boot ROM. After that step, the flow is
defined by the SoC vendor as it depends on the architecture and the BSP they provide.

LmP implements three variations of boot flow, starting with Secondary Program Loader (SPL),
TF-A, or Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI).

The following diagrams show each boot flow with the related variable used
to configure the keys used by the Yocto Project.

.. note::

    The device RoT key (the key used for secure boot, for example) is shown in the diagrams.
    However it is not an online key and is not used during the FoundriesFactory® build.

.. graphviz::

   digraph {
        graph [
            label = "Secure boot flow for i.MX machines"
        ];
        node [
            shape=box
        ];
        edge [
            arrowhead=none
        ];
        "Boot ROM"        -> "SPL"                  [label = "RoT key"];
        "SPL"             -> "uboot.itb"            [label = "UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "uboot.itb"       -> "bootscr"              [label = "UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "uboot.itb"       -> "TF-A (arm64 devices)" [label = "TF_A_SIGN_KEY_PATH"];

>         "uboot.itb"       -> "OP-TEE"               [label = "OPTEE_TA_SIGN_KEY"];

Reviewer: Maybe for OP-TEE you can have an additional arrow that like OP-TEE -> OP-TEE TAs, which then would show how OPTEE_TA_SIGN_KEY gets used in the end.

Author: done

>         "uboot.itb"       -> "U-Boot proper"        [label = "UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME"];

Reviewer: I find this a bit confusing as UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME is used to sign uboot.itb (so there is a direct relationship), but the key labels on the other components (coming from uboot.itb) are not related to this relationship in a way (e.g. OPTEE_TA_SIGN_KEY is used by OP-TEE when validating TAs, but here it looks like it was used by u-boot.itb when validating OP-TEE, which is not the case, since everything inside uboot.itb gets validated by UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME).

Author: @ricardosalveti, it makes me think that, in this diagram, OPTEE_TA_SIGN_KEY will not have an arrow associated with it. Is that right?

Reviewer: Right, unless you add a new box for OP-TEE TAs.

Author: ok

        "U-Boot proper"   -> "kernel fitImage"      [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "DTB files"            [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "initrd"               [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "Linux kernel"         [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "Linux kernel"    -> "Linux kernel modules" [label = "MODSIGN_PRIVKEY"];
   }

The following diagram shows the secure boot flow for STM32MP15-based machines:

.. graphviz::

   digraph {
        graph [
            label = "Secure boot flow for STM32MP15 based machines"
        ];
        node [
            shape=box
        ];
        edge [
            arrowhead=none
        ];
        "Boot ROM"        -> "TF-A"                  [label = "RoT key"];

>         "TF-A"            -> "fip.bin"               [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];

Reviewer: Here the key is TF_A_SIGN_KEY_PATH instead (since there is no SPL).

        "fip.bin"         -> "bootscr"               [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "fip.bin"         -> "OP-TEE"                [label = "OPTEE_TA_SIGN_KEY"];

>         "fip.bin"         -> "U-Boot proper"         [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];

Reviewer: Same comment as on the previous boot flow, the key labels are a bit out of context here.

Author: ok

        "U-Boot proper"   -> "kernel fitImage"       [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "DTB files"             [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "initrd"                [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "Linux kernel"          [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "Linux kernel"    -> "Linux kernel modules"  [label = "MODSIGN_PRIVKEY"];
   }

> The following diagram shows the secure boot flow for ``intel-corei7-64`` based machines:

Reviewer: Add (booting with UEFI) since intel can have other boot methods as well.

Author: ok

well as Linux® Kernel image and modules.

Secure Boot Flow
------------------

The secure boot flow starts from the boot ROM. After that step, the flow is
defined by the SoC vendor as it depends on the architecture and the BSP they provide.

LmP implements three variations of boot flow, starting with Secondary Program Loader (SPL),
TF-A, or Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI).

The following diagrams show each boot flow with the related variable used
to configure the keys used by the Yocto Project.

.. note::

    The device RoT key (the key used for secure boot, for example) is shown in the diagrams.
    However it is not an online key and is not used during the FoundriesFactory® build.

.. graphviz::

   digraph {
        graph [
            label = "Secure boot flow for i.MX machines"
        ];
        node [
            shape=box
        ];
        edge [
            arrowhead=none
        ];
        "Boot ROM"        -> "SPL"                  [label = "RoT key"];
        "SPL"             -> "uboot.itb"            [label = "UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "uboot.itb"       -> "bootscr"              [label = "UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME"];

>         "uboot.itb"       -> "TF-A (arm64 devices)" [label = "UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME"];

Author: I changed this, @igoropaniuk. Please see if you think it's readable in the final diagram

        "OP-TEE"          -> "OP-TEE TAs"            [label = "OPTEE_TA_SIGN_KEY"];
        "uboot.itb"       -> "U-Boot proper"        [label = "UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "U-Boot proper"   -> "kernel fitImage"      [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "DTB files"            [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "initrd"               [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "Linux kernel"         [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "Linux kernel"    -> "Linux kernel modules" [label = "MODSIGN_PRIVKEY"];
   }

The following diagram shows the secure boot flow for STM32MP15-based machines:

.. graphviz::

   digraph {
        graph [
            label = "Secure boot flow for STM32MP15 based machines"
        ];
        node [
            shape=box
        ];
        edge [
            arrowhead=none
        ];
        "Boot ROM"        -> "TF-A"                  [label = "RoT key"];
        "TF-A"            -> "fip.bin"               [label = "TF_A_SIGN_KEY_PATH"];
        "fip.bin"         -> "bootscr"               [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];

>         "fip.bin"         -> "OP-TEE"                [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];

Author: Where should I add BL32 @igoropaniuk?

>         "fip.bin"         -> "OP-TEE"                [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];

Reviewer 2: I meant just 

```
 "fip.bin"         -> "OP-TEE (BL32)"                [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
```

        "OP-TEE"          -> "OP-TEE TAs"            [label = "OPTEE_TA_SIGN_KEY"];

>         "fip.bin"         -> "U-Boot proper"         [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];

Reviewer 2: `u-boot.itb` is missing

Author: Which are the pieces that `u-boot.itb`brings in this case?

Reviewer 2: Ah sorry for confusion, I meant `u-boot.dtb`, not itb.

In both cases of containers (ITB and FIP) U-Boot DTB is a separate file, so we can mention it explicitly.

        "kernel fitImage" -> "initrd"                [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "Linux kernel"          [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "Linux kernel"    -> "Linux kernel modules"  [label = "MODSIGN_PRIVKEY"];
   }

The following diagram shows the secure boot flow (when booting with UEFI)
for ``intel-corei7-64`` based machines:

.. graphviz::

   digraph {
        graph [
            label = "Secure boot flow for UEFI based machines"
        ];
        node [
            shape=box
        ];
        edge [
            arrowhead=none
        ];
        "Boot ROM"              -> "UEFI"                 [label = "RoT key"];
        "UEFI"                  -> "systemd-boot"         [label = "UEFI_SIGN_KEYDIR"];
        "systemd-boot"          -> "Linux kernel"         [label = "${UEFI_SIGN_KEYDIR}/DB.key"];
        "Linux kernel"          -> "Linux kernel modules" [label = "MODSIGN_PRIVKEY"];
   }

When a Factory is created, by default, two sets of keys are created under
``lmp-manifest`` repository:

* ``conf/keys``: The key set is a copy of the default LmP public keys.

> * ``factory-keys``: The key set is created during the FoundriesFactory creation

Reviewer 2: `FoundriesFactory®`

Crypto Keys Used by FoundriesFactory at Build Time
==================================================

> The LmP build system can use some online keys to sign some boot components of

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: not required to implement.
```suggestion
By default, the LmP build system uses online keys to sign some boot components of
```

the software stack.

It can handle the U-Boot, OP-TEE, which is a Trusted Execution Environment (TEE). And also
Linux® Kernel image and modules.

The device RoT key (the key used for secure boot, for example) is shown in the diagrams.
However it is not an online key and is not used during the FoundriesFactory® build.

Secure Boot Flow
------------------

The secure boot flow starts from the boot ROM. After that step, the flow is
defined by the SoC vendor as it depends on the architecture and the BSP they provide.

LmP implements three variations of boot flow, using Secondary Program Loader (SPL),

> TF-A, or Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI).

Reviewer 3: as SPL can use TF-A as well

The following diagrams show each of them with the related variable used
to configure the Yocto Project.

.. graphviz::

   digraph {
        graph [

>             label = "Secure boot flow for i.MX machines"

Reviewer 3: We don't define the font here, but define in the two other diagrams. For me, I prefer the font used in this one, but let's try to standardize this.

        "kernel fitImage" -> "Linux kernel"          [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "Linux kernel"    -> "Linux kernel modules"  [label = "MODSIGN_PRIVKEY"];
   }

The following diagram shows the secure boot flow for ``intel-corei7-64`` based machines:

.. graphviz::

   digraph {
        graph [
            fontname="lato-normal"
            label = "Secure boot flow for UEFI based machines"
        ];
        node [
            fontname="lato-normal"
            shape=box
        ];
        edge [
            arrowhead=none
            fontname="lato-normal"
        ];
        "Boot ROM"              -> "UEFI"                 [label = "RoT key"];
        "UEFI"                  -> "systemd-boot"         [label = "UEFI_SIGN_KEYDIR"];
        "systemd-boot"          -> "Linux kernel"         [label = "${UEFI_SIGN_KEYDIR}/DB.key"];
        "Linux kernel"          -> "Linux kernel modules" [label = "MODSIGN_PRIVKEY"];
   }

When a Factory is created, by default, two sets of keys are created under
``lmp-manifest`` repository:

* ``conf/keys``: The key set is a copy of the default LmP public keys.

> * ``factory-keys``: The key set is created during the Factory's creation
>   and is unique for that factory.

Reviewer 3: I think we have a pattern on Factory, maybe @kprosise can confirm.
```suggestion
* ``factory-keys``: The key set is created during the Factory's creation
  and is unique for that Factory.
```

Reviewer 4: That's correct

The name of the key indicates by which component the **public** part of the key is used.

The **dev** pair is a generic ``RSA`` 2048 key pair and is not in use.

The **opteedev** pair is a ``RSA`` 2048 key pair by ``OP-TEE`` in order to validate trusted
The **opteedev** pair is a ``RSA`` 2048 key pair by ``OP-TEE``to validate trusted
applications run by ``OP-TEE``. This is used by configuring the variable ``OPTEE_TA_SIGN_KEY``.

The **ubootdev** pair is a ``RSA`` 2048 key pair by U-Boot proper in order to validate the
Linux® Kernel. This is used by configuring the variable ``UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME``.
The **ubootdev** pair is a ``RSA`` 2048 key pair by U-Boot proper to validate the
Linux Kernel. This is used by configuring the variable ``UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME``.

The **spldev** key pair is a ``RSA`` 2048 key pair used by U-Boot ``SPL`` in order to validate
The **spldev** key pair is a ``RSA`` 2048 key pair used by U-Boot ``SPL``to validate
``FIT`` image containing U-Boot and ``OP-TEE``.
This is used by configuring the variable ``UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME``.

The file ``x509.genkey`` is a configuration file used for creating

> ``privkey_modsign.pem`` and ``x509_modsign.crt`` which is a RSA 2048 pair in PEM

Author: the "RSA 2048" information is on the table now. But the main reason to drop that is to avoid adding what RSA stands for

Crypto Keys Used by FoundriesFactory at Build Time
==================================================

The LmP build system can use some online keys to sign some boot components of
the software stack.

It can handle the U-Boot, OP-TEE, which is a Trusted Execution Environment (TEE). And also
Linux® Kernel image and modules.

The device RoT key (the key used for secure boot, for example) is shown in the diagrams.
However it is not an online key and is not used during the FoundriesFactory® build.

Secure Boot Flow
------------------

The secure boot flow starts from the boot ROM. After that step, the flow is

> defined by the SoC vendor as it depends on the architecture and BSP provided by the SoC vendor.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
defined by the SoC vendor as it depends on the architecture and the BSP they provide.
```
Just shortening it a little, as SoC vendor is already mentioned.

LmP implements three variations of boot flow, using Secondary Program Loader (SPL),

> TF-A or Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
TF-A, or Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI).
```

        "kernel fitImage" -> "DTB files"             [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "initrd"                [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "Linux kernel"          [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "Linux kernel"    -> "Linux kernel modules"  [label = "MODSIGN_PRIVKEY"];
   }

The following diagram shows the secure boot flow for ``intel-corei7-64`` based machines:

.. graphviz::

   digraph {
        graph [
            fontname="lato-normal"
            label = "Secure boot flow for UEFI based machines"
        ];
        node [
            fontname="lato-normal"
            shape=box
        ];
        edge [
            arrowhead=none
            fontname="lato-normal"
        ];
        "Boot ROM"              -> "UEFI"                 [label = "RoT key"];
        "UEFI"                  -> "systemd-boot"         [label = "UEFI_SIGN_KEYDIR"];
        "systemd-boot"          -> "Linux kernel"         [label = "${UEFI_SIGN_KEYDIR}/DB.key"];
        "Linux kernel"          -> "Linux kernel modules" [label = "MODSIGN_PRIVKEY"];
   }

> When a FoundriesFactory is created, by default, two sets of keys are created under

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When a Factory is created, by default, two sets of keys are created under
```

``lmp-manifest`` repository:

* ``conf/keys``: The key set is a copy of the default LmP public keys.

> * ``factory-keys``: The key set is created during the FoundriesFactory creation

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* ``factory-keys``: The key set is created during the Factory's creation
```

==================================================

LmP build system can use some online keys for signing some boot components of
the software stack. It can handle the U-Boot, OP-TEE, which is a Trusted Execution Environment (TEE),
Linux® Kernel image and modules.
The device RoT key (the key used for secure boot, for example) is not
listed here as it is not an online key and is not used during the
FoundriesFactory® build.

Secure Boot Flow
------------------

> The secure boot flow starts from the boot rom. After that step, the flow is

Reviewer: rom is usually all caps, like boot ROM, so we might want to change our references here.

defined by the SoC vendor as it depends on the architecture,
and also on the BSP provided by the SoC vendor.

LmP implements three variations of boot flow, using Secondary Program Loader (SPL),
TF-A or Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI).

> Some boot flow also includes OP-TEE, .

Reviewer: Extra comma.

The following diagrams show each of them with the related variable used
to configure the Yocto Project.

.. graphviz::

   digraph {
        graph [
            label = "Secure boot flow for i.MX machines"
        ];
        node [
            shape=box
        ];
	edge [
                arrowhead=none
        ];
        "Boot ROM"        -> "SPL"                  [label = "fuse"];
        "SPL"             -> "uboot.itb"            [label = "UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "uboot.itb"       -> "bootscr"              [label = "UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME"];

>         "uboot.itb"       -> "TF-A (optional)"      [label = "TF_A_SIGN_KEY_PATH"];

Reviewer: I guess instead of optional just say (arm64 devices)?

In theory it can be also enabled on 32-bits devices (like done for stm32), but this is not supported by NXP.

        ];
	edge [
                arrowhead=none
        ];
        "Boot ROM"        -> "TF-A"                  [label = "fuse"];
        "TF-A"            -> "fip.bin"               [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "fip.bin"         -> "bootscr"               [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "fip.bin"         -> "OP-TEE"                [label = "OPTEE_TA_SIGN_KEY"];
        "fip.bin"         -> "U-Boot proper"         [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "U-Boot proper"   -> "kernel fitImage"       [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "DTB files"             [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "initrd"                [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "kernel fitImage" -> "Linux kernel"          [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];
        "Linux kernel"    -> "Linux kernel modules"  [label = "MODSIGN_PRIVKEY"];
   }

The next diagram shows the secure boot flow for ``intel-corei7-64`` based machines:

.. graphviz::

   digraph {
        graph [
            label = "Secure boot flow for UEFI based machines"
        ];
        node [
            shape=box
        ];
	edge [
                arrowhead=none
        ];

>         "Boot ROM"              -> "fip.bin (TF-A and OP-TEE)"[label = "fuse"];

Reviewer: I guess since we're talking about Intel (and would apply to other targets as well), we can just say boot rom -> UEFI as TF-A / OP-TEE are not available on intel and not necessarily available on ARM either.

>         "fip.bin (TF-A and OP-TEE)" -> "uefi"                 [label = "TF_A_SIGN_KEY_PATH"];

Reviewer: This is atm only used with stm32, so fine to drop and have rom -> uefi.

>         "uefi"                  -> "systemd.boot"         [label = "UEFI_SIGN_KEYDIR"];

Reviewer: Probably good to use all caps with UEFI.

For systemd boot, write as systemd-boot.

>         "systemd.boot"          -> "Linux kernel"         [label = "TF_A_SIGN_KEY_PATH"];

Reviewer: meta-lmp-base/recipes-core/systemd/systemd-boot_%.bbappend

```
                for efi in `find ${B}/src/boot/efi -name '*.efi'`; do
                        sbsign --key ${UEFI_SIGN_KEYDIR}/DB.key --cert ${UEFI_SIGN_KEYDIR}/DB.crt $efi
                        sbverify --cert ${UEFI_SIGN_KEYDIR}/DB.crt $efi.signed
                        mv $efi.signed $efi
                done
```
It uses DB.key for signing EFI payloads. Same also done for kernel, check meta-lmp-base/classes/kernel-lmp-efi.bbclass.

listed here as it is not an online key and is not used during the
FoundriesFactory build.

> Security Boot Flow

Reviewer: I think we can probably just say Secure Boot Flow instead.

------------------

The security boot flow starts from the boot rom and the first certificate

> is commounly from the fuses. After that step, the flow is defined by the SoC

Reviewer: I would drop 'and the first certificate is commounly from the fuses.'

vendor as it depends on the architecture,
and also the BSP provided by the SoC vendor.

LmP implements three variations of boot flow, using SPL, TF-A or UEFI.
The following diagrams show each of them with the related variable used
to configure the Yocto Project.

.. graphviz::

   digraph {
        graph [

>             label = "Security boot flow for i.MX machines"

Reviewer: Secure boot flow

        ];
        node [
            shape=box
        ];
	edge [
                arrowhead=none
        ];
        "Boot ROM"     -> "SPL"                  [label = "1"];
        "SPL"          -> "uboot.itb"            [label = "2"];
        "uboot.itb"    -> "bootscr"              [label = "2"];

>         "uboot.itb"    -> "TF-A"                 [label = "2"];

Reviewer: TF-A is optional on some targets, like imx6/7/7ulp (most 32 bits imx variants).

        "uboot.itb"    -> "OP-TEE"               [label = "3"];

>         "uboot.itb"    -> "uboot proper"         [label = "2"];

Reviewer: U-Boot proper

>         "uboot proper" -> "fitImage"             [label = "4"];

Reviewer: To avoid confusion we should probably say kernel fitImage (as u-boot.itb is also a fitimage).

        "fitImage"     -> "DTB files"            [label = "4"];
        "fitImage"     -> "initrd"               [label = "4"];
        "fitImage"     -> "Linux kernel"         [label = "4"];
        "Linux kernel" -> "Linux kernel modules" [label = "5"];

        subgraph cluster_01 {
                label = "Legend";
                key [label=<<table border="0" cellpadding="2" cellspacing="0" cellborder="0">
                        <tr><td align="right" port="i1">1 - fuse </td></tr>
                        <tr><td align="right" port="i2">2 - UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME</td></tr>

>                         <tr><td align="right" port="i2">3 - OPTEE_TA_SIGN_KEY</td></tr>

Reviewer: TA sign key can be added here similarly as done for kernel modules, as it is used to validate the trusted applications loaded at runtime (TAs).

                        <tr><td align="right" port="i2">4 - UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME</td></tr>
                        <tr><td align="right" port="i2">5 - MODSIGN_PRIVKEY</td></tr>
                </table>>]
        }

   }

> The next diagram shows the security boot flow for stm32 based machines:

Reviewer: STM32MP15

.. graphviz::

   digraph {
        graph [
            label = "Security boot flow for stm32 based machines"
        ];
        node [
            shape=box
        ];
	edge [
                arrowhead=none
        ];
        "Boot ROM"     -> "TF-A"                 [label = "fuse"];

>         "TF-A"         -> "uboot.itb"            [label = "UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME"];

Reviewer: uboot.itb is not used here, instead TF-A validates fip.bin (which is a container with optee and u-boot proper in it).

Reviewer: And with bootscr.

listed here as it is not an online key and is not used during the
FoundriesFactory build.

Secure Boot Flow
------------------

The secure boot flow starts from the boot rom. After that step, the flow is
defined by the SoC vendor as it depends on the architecture,

> and also the BSP provided by the SoC vendor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and also on the BSP provided by the SoC vendor.
```

        directory with the set of keys and certificates. In this case, the commands
        can be used to create the files.

A pair comprises a certificate (``*.crt``) and a key (``*.key``) file.

The name of the key indicates by which component the **public** part of the key is used.

The **dev** pair is a generic ``RSA`` 2048 key pair and is not in use.

The **opteedev** pair is a ``RSA`` 2048 key pair by ``OP-TEE``to validate trusted
applications run by ``OP-TEE``. This is used by configuring the variable ``OPTEE_TA_SIGN_KEY``.

The **ubootdev** pair is a ``RSA`` 2048 key pair by U-Boot proper to validate the

> Linux Kernel. This is used by configuring the variable ``UBOOT_SPL_SIGN_KEYNAME``.

Reviewer: Here it should be UBOOT_SIGN_KEYNAME instead.

format, and is used for signing Linux Kernel Modules. This is used by
configuring the variable ``MODSIGN_PRIVKEY``.

> The **UEFI** certificates are detailed in :ref:`ref-secure-boot-uefi`.

Reviewer 3: Should we list the UEFI certificates briefly here for consistency?

        │   │   ├── privkey_modsign.pem
        │   │   ├── spldev.crt
        │   │   ├── spldev.key
        │   │   ├── tf-a
        │   │   ├── ubootdev.crt
        │   │   ├── ubootdev.key

>         │   │   ├── uefi

Reviewer 3: Should we say that a factory will not include all the files listed here as that is SoC dependent?

Author: The generated keys for the factory do not depend on SoC. At least, my latest factory created for imx machine does include uefi and tf-a.

        │   ├── privkey_modsign.pem
        │   ├── spldev.crt
        │   ├── spldev.key
        │   ├── tf-a
        │   ├── ubootdev.crt
        │   ├── ubootdev.key
        │   ├── uefi
        │   └── x509_modsign.crt

How to Rotate the FoundriesFactory Keys
---------------------------------------

> Each FoundriesFactory is created with a unique key set. However, it is highly

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Each Factory is created with a unique key set. However, it is highly
```

recommended to rotate the keys as needed. The suggestion is to rotate them each
6 to 24 months.

.. warning::
  One of the aspects that can contribute to a secure system is to rotate
  the used keys often. So, it is highly recommended to rotate the keys each 6 to 24
  months.

In the following sections, the command line on how to create the key pair for U-Boot,

> OP-TEE and Linux Kernel Modules. Assuming the ``lmp-manifest`` repository is

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
OP-TEE and Linux Kernel Modules is shown. Assuming the ``lmp-manifest`` repository is
```

            -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_pubexp:65537
    openssl req -batch -new -x509 -key opteedev.key -out opteedev.crt

.. _ref-factory-key-tfa:

> TrustedFirmware-A Keys

Author: @kprosise, how can we ignore the vale error message for this title?

Reviewer 4: @angolini, that's fine, just ignore it! Not all vale messages are going to apply every time! If you know that it is an exception, like in this case, then all is fine!

            -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_pubexp:65537
    openssl req -batch -new -x509 -key opteedev.key -out opteedev.crt

.. _ref-factory-key-tfa:

TrustedFirmware-A Keys
"""""""""""""""""""""""

For TF-A keys:

.. prompt:: bash host:~$

    cd <factory>/lmp-manifest/factory-keys
    openssl req -new -nodes -utf8 -sha256 -days 36500 -batch -x509 \
            -config ../conf/keys/x509.genkey -outform PEM \
            -out x509_modsign.crt \

>             -keyout privkey_ec_prime256v1.pem

Reviewer: TF-A EC is just a key, the line is incorrect, check https://github.com/foundriesio/partner-setup/commit/fac36e2a624d117bbfe5cc380122ebc07e14622e

            -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_pubexp:65537
    openssl req -batch -new -x509 -key opteedev.key -out opteedev.crt

.. _ref-factory-key-tfa:

Trust Firmware-a Keys
"""""""""""""""""""""

For TF-A keys:

.. prompt:: bash host:~$

    cd <factory>/lmp-manifest/factory-keys
    openssl req -new -nodes -utf8 -sha256 -days 36500 -batch -x509 \
            -config ../conf/keys/x509.genkey -outform PEM \
            -out x509_modsign.crt \
            -keyout privkey_ec_prime256v1.pem

.. tip::

>         Remember to push the new keys to get it included in the next CI

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        Remember to push the new keys to get it included them the next CI
```

        build.

.. _ref-factory-key-linux-module:

Linux Kernel Modules Keys
"""""""""""""""""""""""""

> A configuration file is needed to create the key used by Linux Kernel to sign the modules. The `Linux Kernel documentation`_ states

Reviewer 3: Are we breaking the lines at 80 columns or not?
```suggestion
A configuration file is needed to create the key used by Linux Kernel to sign the modules. The `Linux Kernel documentation`_ states
```

            -pkeyopt rsa_keygen_pubexp:65537
    openssl req -batch -new -x509 -key opteedev.key -out opteedev.crt

.. _ref-factory-key-tfa:

Trust Firmware-a Keys
"""""""""""""""""""""

For TF-A keys:

.. prompt:: bash host:~$

    cd <factory>/lmp-manifest/factory-keys
    openssl req -new -nodes -utf8 -sha256 -days 36500 -batch -x509 \
            -config ../conf/keys/x509.genkey -outform PEM \
            -out x509_modsign.crt \
            -keyout privkey_ec_prime256v1.pem

.. tip::

>         Remind to push the new keys to get it included in the next CI

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        Remember to push the new keys to get it included in the next CI
```

            -keyout privkey_modsign.pem

.. tip::

>         Remind to push the new keys to get it included in the next CI

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        Remember to push the new keys to get it included in the next CI
```
